Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to make making the
comparison between the 2026 bare market
to the 2018 bare market from a
structural perspective. But from a
liquidity and business cycle and flow
perspective, it looks more like the
digestion phase after the 2019 apathetic
top. If you guys like the content, make
sure you subscribe to the channel, give
the video a thumbs up, and also check
out the sale on into the
cryptoverse.com.
We also, as a reminder, have the ITC
conference coming up in November. I know
people need a lot of, you know, a lot of
time to plan for something like that
because it's an in-person event. It's
not just log on to YouTube. Uh but if
you are interested in going, as a
reminder, it's taking place uh November
20th through the 22nd in Miami, Florida.
And I I'm looking forward to having you
guys there. And remember, one of the
nice things about putting it in
November, at least my idea was that
ideally it'll be after the market cycle
bottom for Bitcoin. There's always a
chance that it it won't be, but I tend
to think it it likely will be. And if
it's not, if the low is not in by then,
it probably be really, really close to
being in. And we're going to talk about
that a little bit in this video. So, if
you look at Bitcoin,
you know, we're right around 6162K.
From a structural perspective, this is a
less volatile version of the 2018 bare
market. Absolutely. And I know it sounds
crazy and I I've been talking about this
for the entire year and and a lot of
people have faded it, but it honestly
has played out. Like I I don't really
think there's been another view of of
the bare market here that was any better
than the 2018 comparison. Now, what's
interesting about the 2018 comparison
and how it continues to play out is that
in 2018, Bitcoin found a low in
February, and then a higher low in
March, late March, early April. Same
thing in 2026, a low in February, and
then a higher low in late March, early
April, and then a lower high in May,
just like we got a lower high in May of
2026. Now, we talked about this back in
February that the low that we get in
March or early April could in fact be a
higher low instead of a lower low, but
because it was a higher low, a lot of
people had a field day with it. They got
really bullish. They called me out. But
then you look at it and you're like,
well, look, it actually looks really
similar to what happened in 2026 where
we had those like four or five green
weeks in a row just to go up to the bare
market resistance band and get rejected.
and we got rejected in May. So notice
you have the February low in 2018, the
February low in 2026. You have the
higher low in late March, early April.
You have the higher low in early higher
low in late March, early April 2026. So
2018, 2026, the similarity stands. You
have the lower high in May of 2018. You
have the lower high in May of 2026. And
then in June, late June, early July of
2018, you sweep the February low just
like you did in 2026. So in a lot of
ways, it's the same from a structural
perspective, but from a business cycle
perspective
and and and that in from a more macro
perspective,
it's not 2018. It's more like the 2019
2019 20 sorry 2019 2020 era. So it's
really interesting because a lot of
people get hung up on the business cycle
or the four-year cycle. But I think what
a lot of people are missing is that they
can both coexist.
Some people will say that the four-year
cycle is wrong and they'll then point to
the business cycle, right? They'll point
to the ISM and and the M2 and all that
stuff. And I'm not saying none of that
stuff's important, but the reality is is
all you had to follow was the four-year
cycle. That stuff still can be important
in terms of what does well, but it
doesn't mean that Bitcoin escapes the
four-year cycle just because the
manufacturing sector is doing well. If
the manufacturing sector is doing well,
then I would think and what I did last
year was I bought manufacturing stocks.
Just because I see the manufacturing
sector doing well doesn't mean I go out
and buy altcoins, right? I mean, like
that that should be pretty obvious. So
from this perspective, it's playing out.
And when you look at the year-to- date
ROI of it, right? When you look at the
year-to- date ROI of Bitcoin in 2026
compared to 2018, you can see it's just
a less volatile version of 2018. The low
in February aligns. The higher low in
late March, early April, again, align
the lower high in May align. You sweep
the low in June, late late June, early
July, that aligns as well. Even the
smaller little move up and then the dip
going into CPI, which is what we're
getting right now. Guess what? That also
aligns. It's all the same thing. The
only question we have to ask ourselves
is, do we get this at the end of the
year? Now, a lot of people say that this
will break, and you might be surprised
for me to hear me say I agree with you.
I agree that this fractal will break.
What I don't agree with is the people
that spent the last 8 months saying it
would break up until this point. And I
still don't think it's going to break. I
I think the most likely outcome is that
you you're sort of you've been in this
window of strength for a little bit and
and a lot of times going into mid July
there's a brief drop before it bounces
again. But by late July, early August,
you know, there's a good chance Bitcoin
just gives these gains right back,
whatever gains end up happening. And I
just want people to be aware of that.
And it's not even just a 2018 thing. You
know, I know in 2018, Bitcoin rallied in
July and and then it came it gave all
those gains back in August. But it also
did the same thing in 2022 or yeah,
2022. Bitcoin rallied in July and then
it gave all those gains back in in
August going into early September. So,
Bitcoin likes to do that, right? like it
likes to get a little bounce in early
July, put in a higher low in mid July
around the CPI report, bounce again, but
then give it all back by by August, mid
August, late August. That's what it
tends to do. So, we got to be we got to
be aware of that that this is what
normally plays out for Bitcoin. And I
want to be clear,
I am not talking about altcoins. I know
there's this joke that I'm not talking
about your alt, but I I want to sort of
issue a warning here about another
warning the for the 20,000th time about
altcoins. In 2018, when Bitcoin found a
low in June and then rallied into July,
it held 6K as support until November,
but the altcoin market bled out a lot in
August and September and October. Like,
it bled out a lot. And and if you
overlay Bitcoin with altcoins, you'll
see it.
Look at total three over Bitcoin. Notice
how in 2018, Bitcoin was holding
support.
What were altcoins doing? They were
doing what they do. They they do best.
They bleed, right? They were bleeding.
They were bleeding even while Bitcoin
was holding support at 6K. Now, where do
I think this is going to break? I could
be wrong, but my guess is that we won't
have to wait until the end of December
for the low. I would think it would
occur sooner than that. Maybe like late
September, early October seems about
right. And the reason I say that is
because if you look at the ROI, right,
from the low and you measure it out to
the next low, that would put you in like
late September, early October. So, the
idea of having to wait to December would
imply that this bare market will go on a
lot longer than the last two. And I
don't I'm not inclined to believe that
that's going to happen. Now, there's one
example where it did last a little bit
longer. If you look at 2014, 2013, 2014,
the bare market actually started in late
November and didn't end until early
January. So, if the bare market were to
go 134 months, then I guess Bitcoin
could bottom in December instead. But
that is not my base case. I think that
the people are right that the fractal of
the year-to- date ROI will likely break,
but I think it could break because maybe
Bitcoin bottoms a month or two sooner
than in 2018. Because remember in 2018,
Bitcoin bottomed in December
of 2018, but the point is that yeah, it
bottomed in December, but it also topped
in December the year before. This time
we topped in October. So yeah, it could
bottom in December, but that might be
getting a little greedy, right? That
might be getting a little greedy at that
point and to say, you know what, let's
not let's not get overly greedy on that.
I I think the argument is what's most
likely to happen for Bitcoin is, you
know, it's getting squeezed between the
200week moving average and the bare
market resistance band. You might get a
little bit of a a dip here and perhaps
retest the bare market resistance band
and just spend some time in here. You
get your resolution. My guess would be
to the downside because that would
that's what would be needed to fully
reset all the onchain indicators
and then from that low you form your
market cycle bottom and then the next
bull market begins. Now again I'm not
saying you need to wait for that to buy
Bitcoin because the reality is is I
never have right I mean like in 2018 and
2022 I just started buying in in the
summer and you know I had to stomach
some downside in the short term but it
eventually worked out.
This is an academic exercise, right?
Like I'm not telling you, hey, you have
to time the bottom. Because the reality
is if you don't buy Bitcoin and you
decide you're going to time the bottom,
what's more likely going to happen is
the bottom's going to happen and you're
going to be at work or you're going to
be too scared to buy and then while you
technically were right, you did not make
money. There's a difference between
being right and making money. A big
difference. I would rather be rich and
right than poor and wrong.
If you have an ego that gets in the way
of you making money, that's a problem
you need to address. Right? Being right
doesn't necessarily mean anything. It
doesn't. There's a huge difference
between being right and making money.
And as I said earlier, I'd rather be
rich and wrong than poor and right.
Drop the ego. I'd rather make money than
be right. So, we got to be clear about
that, right? Don't let your ego get in
the way. To me, Bitcoin is following
what it did in 2018, right? Even this
little consolidation right here is
exactly what it did in 2018. Like, it it
you see it's it's the same thing, you
know? I mean, it's it's almost a carbon
copy. Look at this. Two green weeks
after the June early July low. two green
weeks followed by a red week in the
middle of July. Look at 2018. It's the
same thing, right? You put in your low
in late June, early July, you get two
green weeks, one red week, and then the
next week you rally on up to the bare
market resistance band by late July.
And then guess what? In August, you give
it all back.
It's the same thing. What I'm arguing is
that I think you see how Bitcoin after
giving back the July gains, how it just
went sideways until November before it
fell. What I'm saying is the pattern
will break likely because let's suppose
this is a red week. We go up to the bare
market resistance band one more time by
like late July, early August. We get
stuck in here. Stock market correction
starts August or September. Bitcoin
drops to form the market cycle bottom. I
don't think it's going to go sideways
until November before dropping. I think
it'll drop before then, which is why the
pattern I think will break.
So, from a structural perspective, this
is 2018, just a less volatile version of
it. From a business cycle perspective,
this is absolutely what it felt like
after the 2019 apathetic top where
altcoins were dropping, Bitcoin was
dropping, dominance was more or less
going sideways, slightly down if you
include stable coins. That's what it did
in 2019, too. So, we've seen this story
before. Chapter 1 was the 2018 bare
market where we held support at 6K.
Chapter 2 was a 2019 bare market where
we also coincidentally held support at
6K.
From a business cycle perspective,
this is 2019 2020. From the four-year
cycle perspective, it's 2018. A lot of
guys get caught up thinking it has to be
one or the other.
Why not both?
Why not both? Because
while Bitcoin topped when it always tops
at the end of at the end of the post
having year there was no rotation into
altcoins. That doesn't mean the
four-year cycle broke. It just means
that the business cycle did not support
that rotation.
And also because most altcoins don't
actually do anything and and they
survive off loose monetary policy. You
know, it's not like the AI trade
required loose monetary policy to do
well. Crypto does, but that's because
mostly crypto is dubious speculation.
Let's have some products. Let's have
some businesses within crypto that make
money. Give me something like that and
monetary policy might not mean as much
for these companies, right? But if the
whole business model is just built on
people continuing to come in and buy and
then you go through some hard times
economically, then that kind of breaks
down for a little while and that's one
of the reasons why there was no rotation
into higher risk assets. Well, we've
rolled down the risk curve rather than
up it. So structurally, this was 2018
from a business cycle perspective
2019.
Those are my views. I hope this has been
helpful for you guys. I don't know. I
mean, I I I obviously don't have a
crystal ball. I do not know exactly
what's going to happen. These are my
best guesses. I hope everyone's been
enjoying their summer. I've been
watching a lot of the World Cup.
Bitcoin's going to be here after the
World Cup. You know, it's okay to go
watch a few games. Bitcoin's not going
anywhere.
I mean, the World Cup, we got Tuesday,
Wednesday, and then the the third place
game Saturday, Sunday.
I go watch that rather than watch
Bitcoin. this week.
So, just be aware that there's more to
life than the markets. The markets will
come back, right? Like, I think Bitcoin
will come back, but it's going through
what we call timebased
capitulation.
And I can't speed it up. You can't speed
it up. The only thing that would speed
it up is if we get some type of massive
catalyst that causes a big crash, then
that could speed it up. But we can't do
anything about it other than to just be
patient. Come up with a strategy.
Whether it's DCAing, whatever it is,
just be patient. Wait, and realize that
the market is doing what it's always
done.
And the midterm years have always been
bad, the guys who faded the four-year
cycle,
I hope they get the memo, but it's doing
what it's always done. And as I've said
before, the biggest critics of the
four-year cycle will likely become the
biggest cheerleaders in just a few
months. Again, if you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe, give
the video a thumbs up, check out ITC
Premium at into the cryptoverse.com. We
have that sale still going on. And then
the last thing I will say, and I know I
talk about this a lot, but we have the
ITC conference investing through the
cycles. We've got a lot of great
speakers lined up. Um, I hope to see you
guys there. Links in the description
below. Thank you guys for tuning in.
I'll see you next time.